in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of network
security groups
i think about i have a certain virtual
network
so i have my v-net
and remember that virtual network exists
within a certain region it cannot span
regions so it lives within a certain
region and a certain subscription
now by default
hey we break this down remember into
different subnets
and there is
free flowing communication between
things in those different subnets
remember if i peer a virtual network to
another virtual network
so there's some peering going on there
they also have free range communication
if i was to take an external network
could be on premises or in another cloud
and i then connect that
that remember could be a site-to-site
vpn
or it could be express route private
peering
by default again
these ip spaces become
part of what is considered the virtual
network ip space i it has complete free
flowing
i can go outbound to the internet
i can go so i can go internet
and i can go out to other kind of azure
services
inbound no i can't get inbound from the
internet
but i have all of that
built in is this idea of a stateful
fireball which is native to azure which
is why i can go out bound to the
internet and get a response back whereas
something coming in from the internet
would not be allowed in
but what about if i want to control this
what if i want to have more granular
control maybe between subnets maybe i
want to allow in
a certain communication from the
internet maybe i want to restrict
what i can do to another virtual network
so the way we do this is we create a
network
security
group then a network security group has
to be in the same subscription and same
region as the virtual network
and what i do is i create rules so there
were one or more rules defined in that
network security group now that rule is
based up of it obviously it has things
like a name
i have a priority
and then it's based around the idea of
well the destination and source
ip
port
and protocol
and then i have an action
so do i allow
or deny
so i create a whole set of these rules
now i said i p
some of the services like in azure
storage have so many different ips this
would be very hard to manage so where i
say ip there's also the option
around service tags
you may also hear the idea of
application security groups which is
really just a tag
i can apply to a network interface card
so if we go and look it's probably
easier to understand
so let's quickly go and look at our
network security groups so i can see
i've got a number of different ones i'm
just going to look at this basic nsg
front end
and there are certain rules that are
just built in
now you'll see these 65 000 let's
collapse this down a little bit there we
go
we can see there are these 65 000 ones
it's a very
low priority because it's a high number
that allows everything inbound so
anything
any port any protocol
from anything in the virtual network to
anything in the virtual network we're
going to allow it
we're also going to allow anything from
the azure load balancer now notice that
word azure load balancer that's a
service tag that represents
the load balancer service of azure but
then we're going to deny everything else
so when we think about oh other stuff
from the internet or anywhere else it's
not going to let that in so this is
inbound
so they're default rules notice i've
also added my own rule that i called web
that 443 inbound from the internet i'm
allowing in
because i'm going to offer services out
to the internet
and then we have outbound rules
outbound rules well
what it has here is allow v-net
outbounds anything to anything in that
known ip space
it allows anything out to the internet
so that's outbound and because it's
stateful we'll let the response come
back and then it denies everything else
although there really isn't very much
left
but i can add my own rules
so if i think about outbound
the source i could say anything from my
virtual network or an ip address or
that tag i talked about that you can
generate
so i'll say anything from my virtual
network
coming from any port now my destination
i could do as an ip address or a tag or
i can do service tags so when we look at
service tags we'll see there's a whole
number of these different service tags
these represent a set of ip addresses
for these particular services so it's
some very common ones so we talked about
these already
virtual network is not just the iep
space of the virtual network i'm on
it includes any ip space that i'm
connected to through peering or site
site vpn or expressroute private peering
then there's the azure load balancer
and then there's internet so internet is
the entire iep space that is not the
virtual network
then there's all these special ones
all the different services based around
all the different regions so maybe i
want to allow access to azure key vault
in uk south so i could add that as a tag
or again i could just use my p addresses
and then i picked the port so i can pick
the port if i do custom or maybe it's a
well-known port
and if i select a well-known port well
then it's going to pick the port for me
automatically and it's going to pick the
protocol
and then i specify is it allowed or
denied the priority a name and
optionally a description
and so that's what nsgs are
nsgs are simply these sets of rules that
i create
and then what i do is i take this nsg
and i link it to a subnet
so i apply it to a subnet
where those rules are then applied
now it is also possible to apply an nsg
to a network interface card of a vm
but it doesn't give you additional
protection it just makes it very hard to
manage the network security groups are
not some edge device on the subnet
they're actually enforced on the host on
the switch that runs the vm it's just
from a management perspective we can
apply them at a subnet level for ease of
management but they're actually enforced
on the host that's running the vm and it
looks through its virtual switch whether
it should allow it or not so there's no
additional protection by adding it to a
nick as well it just makes it more
complicated but i can technically link
it to a subnet
and if you really wanted to
if i think about a vm and it has a nick
i could although we really don't wanna
i could apply it to a nick as well but
that makes it hard to manage so we don't
really wanna do that
so now i'm controlling that flow
and again i would probably link it to
multiple subnets where i want any of
that protection to happen
and it's now giving me that complete
control and giving me the protection i
want so if you think about hey i need to
restrict
communications between flows of these
subnets or to this paired network or to
an on-premises and i need to think about
ip address ranges or maybe some azure
service
chances are the right answer is going to
be that network security group and you
can always go and actually look at a
nick and it will show you all of the
nsgs that are actually being applied